"You like the sea, Captain?"

"Yes; I love it! The sea is everything. It covers seven tenths of the terrestrial globe. 
Its breath is pure and healthy. It is an immense desert, where man is never lonely, for he 
feels life stirring on all sides. The sea is only the embodiment of a supernatural and 
wonderful existence. It is nothing but love and emotion; it is the 'Living Infinite,' as 
one of your poets has said. In fact, Professor, Nature manifests herself in it by her 
three kingdoms -- mineral, vegetable, and animal. The sea is the vast reservoir of Nature. 
The globe began with sea, so to speak; and who knows if it will not end with it? In it is 
supreme tranquillity. The sea does not belong to despots. Upon its surface men can still 
exercise unjust laws, fight, tear one another to pieces, and be carried away with 
terrestrial horrors. But at thirty feet below its level, their reign ceases, their 
influence is quenched, and their power disappears. Ah! sir, live -- live in the bosom of 
the waters! There only is independence! There I recognize no masters! There I am free!"

Captain Nemo suddenly became silent in the midst of this enthusiasm, by which he was quite 
carried away. For a few moments he paced up and down, much agitated. Then he became more 
calm, regained his accustomed coldness of expression, and turning towards me:

"Now, Professor," said he, "if you wish to go over the Nautilus, I am at your service."

Captain Nemo rose. I followed him. A double door, contrived at the back of the dining 
room, opened, and I entered a room equal in dimensions to that which I had just quitted.

It was a library. High pieces of furniture, of black violet ebony inlaid with brass, 
supported upon their wide shelves a great number of books uniformly bound. They followed 
the shape of the room, terminating at the lower part in huge divans, covered with brown 
leather, which were curved, to afford the greatest comfort. Light movable desks, made to 
slide in and out at will, allowed one to rest one's book while reading. In the centre 
stood an immense table, covered with pamphlets, amongst which were some newspapers, 
already of old date. The electric light flooded everything; it was shed from four 
unpolished globes half sunk in the volutes of the ceiling. I looked with real admiration 
at this room, so ingeniously fitted up, and I could scarcely believe my eyes.

"Captain Nemo," said I to my host, who had just thrown himself on one of the divans, "this 
is a library which would do honor to more than one of the continental palaces, and I am 
absolutely astounded when I consider that it can follow you to the bottom of the seas."
